---
layout: post
title: 2 comment |! to comment?
categories: Senior_Seminar
---
When I started to program, I was taught to be verbose with both variable names and comments explaining the code. We had stylistic and readability points assigned on each assignment to enhance the way the students coded. I loved to produce code that was heavily commented and explained every tiny detail, and everything was great until I came across this series of talks : [Software flaws](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOU2XLYxmsIJ7HGm2bv20QrtwcWemSRCI). The series raises of thought-provoking ideas. There views on commenting interested me the most. The developers discuss the concept of using verbose variable names to adequately describe their purpose eliminating the need of comments that are not part of the documentation (they are not arguing against things like method comments in Java that produce Java Doc). Given that this was very different to what I had learned, I searched online to see what other people thought.

Comments are written to indicate something to the programmer that might not immediately make sense. The problem with comments is that they appear at a specific place and this if someone is not reading the code sequentially, it might be a while before the appropriate comment is discovered. For verbose variable names, one can see what it means every time they see the variable. It also makes debugging easier as the name of the variable explains its purpose and this potentially what it's value should be too.

This does not imply that comments do not have their place. They should be used anywhere something clever what done which might not necessarily be obvious, but one should refrain from writing a lot of comments. If there are a lot of comments, it might just be en indications that a better
software design is required.
