---
layout: post
title: Mirai Botnet and the ethical responsibility of IoT manufacturers
categories: Senior_Seminar
---
The Mirai botnet devastated the internet in 2016 when it attacked Dyn and took down a massive number of services. It was a malware that had a huge impact, but it was based on a simple idea: exploiting default passwords of IoT devices. This attack shows a new problem that will arise with IoT. Given the cheap cost of manufacturing these devices and the nature of their use, they are often mass produced. Mass production and pressure of making them competitive lead to short development cycles which can lead to security loopholes.

Loopholes can be of two kinds: software or hardware. While software vulnerabilities can be damaging, the good things about them are that they can often be patched while fixing a hardware vulnerability is much more complicated. It is usually not feasible to recall hardware devices that cost so little to produce and replacing them might not always be an option. This is further complicated by the fact that IoT is a growing field that does not have standardized protocols and software suites which means that research and development are divided and thus vulnerabilities are found at a much slower rate.

This protocol race is an attempt by companies to capture market share. The company that establishes the majority of IoT protocols will have a lot of power in the domain but I think that it is the ethical responsibility of IoT manufactures to pool in resources for the benefit of the entire industry and design a robust set of protocols that will benefit everyone. A collection of established protocols which are secure will help the IoT industry grow much faster, increase compatibility between devices and help provide products that are secure.
