---
layout: post
title: Ethics in a World Filled with Dilemmas
categories: Senior_Seminar
---
Today, I want to write about Ethics and share some of the things I have been thinking about since we discussed ethics in one of my classes. We studied various ethical frameworks, but the frameworks I want to contrast are [Act relativism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relativism) and [kantinism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kantianism).

Ever since I was a child, *Les Misérables* has been close to my heart. There are two specific scenes that I find especially interesting. The first one being the reason why Jean Valjean, the peasant stole. He had stolen bread for his starving sister and family. He had no means to secure food and thus, act relativism would say that even though stealing is morally wrong, this act would save many lives. The act of stealing would cause harm, but the net outcome of the action is good and is thus ethical. Kantianism expects each to stick to moral rules with total disregard for the situation. What is wrong, is always wrong. Even though stealing cannot be justified, I find it hard to say that Jean was utterly wrong in what he did.

The other scene is when the police come the next morning to the Bishop's house. The Bishop had provided Jean shelter after he got out of prison. During the night, Jean stole the Bishop's silver Candlestands. He was caught by the police in the morning and brought to the Bishop. The Bishop lied to the police and spared Jean. He asked Jean to use the Candlestands wisely and rebuild his life. Again, lying is unethical. Using the Kantianism framework, lying cannot be justified because it leads to a contradiction. Everyone lying would lead to total disarray. Act relativism justified because the net social outcome was good. Jean had a second chance. However, the Bishop, someone who is usually considered to uphold the highest level of moral code, lied. I support his decision.

The example shows my struggle with ethics. Ethics provides us with frameworks to justify and analyze situations, but it does not provide an answer. Each ethical framework has its flaws, and thus one needs to use their experience to discern each situation before acting.
